WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We return
now to North Korea and
its recent missile launch.
Today, the United States called
for a closed-door United Nations
Security Council meeting to
address the threat.
So, what exactly are the Trump
administration's options,
and how might it respond?
For that, we turn to
Ambassador Christopher Hill.
He was the chief U.S. negotiator
with North Korea from 2005
until 2009, and served as
U.S. ambassador to South Korea.
And by Mark Bowden.
He's a national correspondent
for "The Atlantic"
magazine, and he recently
wrote a comprehensive
cover story titled "Can
North Korea Be Stopped?"
Gentlemen, welcome to you both.
Ambassador Hill, I would
like to start with you first.
Can you just give me
your initial reaction to
this most recent launch?
CHRISTOPHER HILL, Former U.S.
Ambassador to Iraq: I think
it's a very serious matter.
It's pretty clear they have made
progress on intercontinental
ballistic missiles.
From what I can understand,
if you sent it at a different
pitch, it could actually exceed
the 5,000 miles that qualifies
it as an intercontinental
ballistic missile.
So it's a pretty serious matter.
And we also understand they made
progress on miniaturization,
so it's not farfetched
to assume that in the next two
or three years, they will have
a deliverable nuclear weapon
aimed at the United States.
And the real question is, how is
the president going to explain
that to the American people?
And, perhaps more immediately,
what is he going to do about it?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Mark
Bowden, just as Ambassador
Hill is saying, President
Trump has said he
will not allow a nuclear-armed
missile to be able to be
developed in North Korea.
But this certainly
seems like a very large
step in that direction.
MARK BOWDEN, "The
Atlantic": It does.
And in addition to shrinking
a nuclear weapon to go on top
of a missile like that, they
already have chemical and
biological weapons that are
capable of mass casualties.
So, this is a really
serious development.
And it's easy to say you're
going to stop them from doing
it, but it's not a very easy
thing to accomplish.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Ambassador,
I wonder if you could give
me a sense of, what is your
understanding of what Kim
Jong-un actually wants
with this nuclear program?
CHRISTOPHER HILL: Well, you
know, opinions differ on this.
There are some who believe this
is a poor, beleaguered country
surrounded by larger hostile
states who want to do it harm,
and so why not allow the North
Koreans to defend themselves?
But I think it's actually
a much more aggressive
purpose they have in mind.
I think what they're hoping is
that to hold American civilians
at risk, that is, to have
a deliverable nuclear weapon
that is deliverable to the U.S.
mainland, they can convince the
United States not to exercise
their responsibilities in
the treaty with South Korea.
And I think being North Korean
is to believe that, somehow,
if they can get the U.S. out
of the equation, they
could reunite the peninsula
on their own terms.
This is -- seems farfetched,
but to be a North Korean is not
necessarily to believe in the
conventional wisdom.
I think there are a lot of North
Koreans who feel there is a lot
of pro-North Korean sentiment
in South Korea, and if only
they could get the U.S. out
of the equation, they could do
it.
So I think it's is a very
serious moment and, frankly,
a very dangerous moment.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Mark Bowden,
what do you make of that?
Is this really primarily a
development of an offensive
weapon for the potential keeping
the U.S. and others at bay
while it retakes South Korea?
MARK BOWDEN: I do think -- and
I agree with Ambassador Hill
that is the primary reason
for having this weapon, but it
also gives North Korea a lot
more leverage in that region
and certainly in dealing
with South Korea.
It's conceivable, given the
overtures that the new South
Korean president has made to
reopen negotiations with North
Korea, that he could -- Kim
Jong-un could use the possession
of a weapon like this to
pressure that those negotiations
take place without the United
States.
And I think his goal may well
be to get the United States
to withdraw from the Korean
Peninsula.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Ambassador
Hill, help me understand this
a little bit more, though,
because we are always told
that, while this regime may be
a despotic regime, that they're
not out of their minds,
they're not irrational actors.
And the idea that somehow
the U.S. would allow them
to invade South Korea
just seems unbelievably
farfetched.
CHRISTOPHER HILL: Well, I
mean, if you look at the kind
of weaponry, which tends to be
very offensive, tends
to be right up there
in the front, when you
look at, as Mark pointed
out, their capacities in
chemical weapons and biological
weapons, if you look at the
fact that they have some
14,000 artillery tubes right
up there in the front pointing
right at the South Korean
civilian populations,
it looks to be a kind
of offensively minded
force.
And I think, for a long time,
they have been dedicated to
the proposition that they have
to kind of decouple the U.S.
from the Korean Peninsula and
then a lot of things will fall
their way.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Mark Bowden,
your piece in "The Atlantic"
laid out what you describe
as the four main options for the
Trump administration to respond.
And you imply obviously that
these are largely bad options.
Can you sort of explain
what suite of options that
the administration has?
MARK BOWDEN: Well, the obvious
one, people Always bring this
up whenever I'm interviewed
on the subject, is that,
well, why don't we just attack
North Korea and take out their
military and
eliminate the threat?
And that's certainly doable, but
the consequences of that would
be horrific, as the ambassador
just pointed out.
Even the conventional weapons
that North Korea has could level
Seoul, a city of 26 million
people.
And when you add, you know,
chemical weapons and biological
weapons and potentially nuclear
weapons, you have possibly
one of the greatest
catastrophes in human history.
The other possibility is to
sort of turn up the screws, a
series of small-scale military
attacks that would kind of ramp
up the pressure on North Korea,
something that could rapidly
descend into an
all-out conflict.
Another possibility is to target
Kim Jong-un himself and try
and eliminate him and replace
him.
And then the last bad option
is just to accept the fact that
we can't stop North Korea from
building these weapons.
And, you know, deterrents
are -- you know, in
this case, it would just
be assured destruction
- - we can hope might
prevent them from using them.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Ambassador,
last question to you.
The president seemed to imply
in his tweet that it's really
upon China to handle this
situation.
But we have had now three
administrations that have tried
to persuade China to act with
regards to North Korea.
Why hasn't that happened yet?
CHRISTOPHER HILL: Well, I
think the Chinese are split.
I think there's some Chinese
who feel that the demise of
North Korea would be perceived
in their country -- that is,
in China -- as a victory for
America and a defeat for China.
And they worry about the
perception of that within China,
that is, it's a domestic issue
within China.
So, there are a lot of people
who want to go with reforms
much faster than Xi Jinping
does.
And if North Korea were to
go away, perhaps those people
would be in the ascendancy.
So, a lot of party
types, security types in
China don't like to see
something that results
in something that looks
like a U.S. victory.
That said, I think those
three administrations
are absolutely correct.
We need to work more with China.
I think the problem is President
Trump has more of an outsourcing
notion, that, somehow,
OK, over to you, China,
you sort this out.
We will support you, and, by
the way, we will stop calling
you a currency manipulator and
all the other bad things
that you don't like.
Well, China is not going to
be able to do this alone.
I would keep the door open
for negotiation, not that the
North Koreans have shown any
interest in negotiation.
But having done it for a number
of years, I think it was the
right way to keep our relations
with Japan and South
Korea together, and having
taken a lot of criticism
from people who thought,
how can you think negotiation
is the right answer?
It has to be a factor in it
if you're going to keep others
together with you on the issue.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All
right, Former Ambassador
Christopher Hill, Mark
Bowden of "The Atlantic"
magazine, thank
you both very much.
MARK BOWDEN: You're welcome.
CHRISTOPHER HILL: Thank you.